= CommaHeaven

CommaHeaven aims to be to CSV export what Searchlogic is to search.

== Advice!

While in production on some project, CommaHeaven is young. Feature additions or bug fixes are welcome.

== Install & use

Install the gem:

  sudo gem install comma-heaven
  
Now just set it as a dependency in your project and you are ready to go.

== Export with comma-heaven

Let me show how CommaHeaven works using an example. We have the following ActiveRecord models:

  # Tree(id: integer, name: string, age: integer, gardener_id: integer)
  # Leaf(id: integer, tree_id: integer, position: string, size: float, height_from_ground: float)
  
  class Tree < ActiveRecord::Base
    has_many :leafs, :dependent => :destroy
  end
  
  class Leaf < ActiveRecord::Base
    belongs_to :tree
  end

Tables contain:
  
  # Trees:
  +----+-------+-----+-------------+
  | id | name  | age | gardener_id |
  +----+-------+-----+-------------+
  | 37 | Olmo  | 100 | 33          |
  | 38 | Ulivo | 150 | 34          |
  +----+-------+-----+-------------+
  
  # Leaves:
  +----+---------+----------+------+--------------------+
  | id | tree_id | position | size | height_from_ground |
  +----+---------+----------+------+--------------------+
  | 81 | 37      | top      |      |                    |
  | 82 | 37      | middle   |      |                    |
  | 83 | 37      | bottom   |      |                    |
  | 84 | 38      | 0        |      | 1.0                |
  | 85 | 38      | 5        |      | 2.0                |
  +----+---------+----------+------+--------------------+
  
CommaHeaven let you export CSV using:

  Tree.to_comma_heaven(:export => { "name" => {"1" => {"as" => "", "include" => "1"} }, 
                                    "leafs" => {"2" => {"export" => { "position" => {"3" => {"as" => "", "include" => '1'} },
                                                                      "height_from_ground" => {"4" => {'as' => '', :include => '1'} } }, 'limit' => 2 } } }).to_csv
  
What you obtain is:

  tree_name,leaf_0_position,leaf_0_height_from_ground,leaf_1_position,leaf_1_height_from_ground
  Olmo,top,,middle,
  Ulivo,0,1.0,5,2.0
  
The export hash explains what to export and how.

== Opinions

* CSV export is a common request and still hard to do
* Export parameters can be passed through an HTML form
* Use joins to produce the dataset to export
* Relationships are exported by row (see example above)

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but
   bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Silvano Stralla. See LICENSE for details.
